Lou let's learn some javascript.
We're gonna open up google chrome here and we're gonna go to a view developer and this time javascript
console so you can do command option J as well.
And it opens up this console which is if you remember elements you've seen it before.
That's your a male console is where we can write JavaScript on the right you'll see the outline of what
we'll talk about in this javascript segment.
We'll go one by one and some of them will come back to but don't worry by the end you'll know everything.
And here so let's talk javascript JavaScript has seven types you can think of types as values that JavaScript
can have let's start with the first one.
And that is number so the number type well in JavaScript you can do something like this.
Look at that the console allows us to write JavaScript as much as we want.
So by writing this and the console giving us an answer it means that yes this is valid javascript.
OK.
What else can we do well we can do three times five 15 Twelve divided by four three.
That's awesome what else can we do.
12 minus four eight nine.
Can we do this.
Can we do three plus four.
Close the bracket.
Times two.
So that's seven times to 14.
Yeah.
That works and we can even do this and this is a special character that you might have not seen before.
It's called module and let's see what happens.
Gives me zero.
Mm hmm.
What if I do twelve modulo five it gives me two.
What this symbol does.
And let's make this bigger so you can see clearly and I'm going to clear this just so you can see it
better and I can do clear here with these brackets and I'll clean up everything for me.
So one more time what I did was twelve modulo five.
And that gives me two in what module does is it gives me the remainder so twelve divided by five is
well it gives me a reminder of two because five can only go to 10 and then you have to reminder.
So if I do let's say twelve modulo five or less to nine I get a remainder of three and you're thinking
Oh God you just you're just teaching me math but don't worry this is only a small part of it I just
want to show you that the first javascript type is a number and we can do operations on them just like
a calculator can.
The second type in Javascript is a string so a string is just text and all you need to do to let javascript
know that you're writing a piece of text is double quotes so I can just say Bob I can say my name and
you can also use single quotes
and that is a string but what else can we do with the string and we clear this well.
You can also do this.
You can say hello plus there.
What do you think will happen here.
Let's see Hello there.
But it is one word.
We need a space so we would have to do Hello space plus there and there we have the space OK so we can
add things so add two sentences together.
What if we do.
What if we do something like this.
This isn't very nice I hit enter and.
OK.
That works.
That's good.
But what if I use single quotes here.
What if I go like this.
And remember I said that I can use single quotes and JavaScript.
Well you see the syntax changes and I get a little error.
Well because I'm using a single quote and then inside the string I'm trying to use a single quote and
that would happen as well if I use double quotes so if we go back to the example before and I add another
quote in here.
Well again I get an error.
So let me clear that how can we avoid this problem well with the string in JavaScript.
We can do something like this this wants to use single quotes.
This isn't and as
this isn't very nice and this backslash has a special meaning the backslash says hey whatever comes
after this it's a special meaning means just ignore it.
Don't say that this is a piece of string.
I just want the back tick.
So if I run like this upset I made the syntax over here wrong.
Obviously the quotes need to match.
So let's try that again.
There you go.
This is a very nice OK.
I have another question what happens here 10 plus string of thirty four so that's number 10 plus string
of thirty four.
Let's see what happens.
Hmm.
Weird.
So javascript automatically looked at this and said he's adding a number and a string.
He's probably trying to add strings together so javascript converts the number 10 into a string 10 and
does 10 34.
That's kind of weird right.
It's one of the course of JavaScript there's a few of them.
You just have to get used to it.
Let's try something else.
What about if I do 10 minus three press enter I get seven.
What is going on here.
And because put the string you can really subtract the string.
I mean let's see if I go Hello minus by I get this weird symbol which will get back to you but that
doesn't work.
So now javascript says I'm going to because he's subtracting.
I'm just gonna assume that he means the number three.
So he's trying to help you out.
But sometimes it can have unexpected behavior.
So ideally you never do things like this.
Ideally you keep numbers with numbers and strings with strings and you keep the actions between the
like types so let's go back to this.
What just happen when I say hello minus by well and a n stands for not a number and it's technically
in JavaScript you can see the blue highlighting here.
It's part of the number type.
So numbers can you know can range from one to 10 to you know five hundred sixty seven.
But there's also the.
And then when it's saying hey whatever you just wrote is not a number.
So that's the case as well.
I know it's really really confusing but don't more is just the quirks of the language that we're learning.
OK I'm going to show you one other javascript type before we get to some fun things in the next video
so the next one is boolean and the boolean type is very simple boolean just means true or false that's
it.
And sometimes that can be represented as ones and zeros and for those that know a lot about computers
you might know that computer is pretty much runs on ones and zeros and that's that's where it comes
from but billions are very very useful because now we can do something like three is greater than two
and I'll say true three is greater than two.
If I do five is greater than ten will say false five is not greater than ten.
We can also do five is greater than or equal to five.
So we'll say true because I can do greater than equal to and I can also do five is smaller than or equal
to five.
Now what if I want to say does three equal three I get an error why is that well.
Because in javascript if you want to say something is equal to something you have to say three equals
three equals sign three and I get true.
And in the next video I'll tell you why that's the case.
It's very very interesting.
But for now just remember that's always a tricky point that a lot of beginners get confused about.
Just remember if you're comparing two things three equal signs the last one I want to show you is this
three doesn't equal three isn't that confusing.
So this is saying that's three not equal three false because three equals three.
I know it can get really really confusing.
But think of this as the opposite of the equals sign.
So for example if I do four doesn't equal five I'll get you because you're right.
Four doesn't equal five.
So what we just learned are javascript comparisons and they're the things right over here.
That's it.
You just have to remember these.
Well that was that was fun right.
But we're just getting started after this video I have left an exercise she for you try to find the
answers to the problems and then copy and paste them each of the questions each of the line into the
javascript console.
So for example if I said you know evaluate three plus five your copy this put it in the console and
just press enter and I want you to get comfortable working with console and playing around with it experimenting
around and like I said really try and work on the next problem sets.
I haven't given you a lot because I don't want you to get overwhelmed.
There's a lot more interesting things happening in JavaScript than this.
And you can pick this up fairly easily.
But I do encourage you to make sure you do the exercises.
Now can you get all of them.
Good luck.
I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.